[Music]
hey let's go underground shall we now
you know that feeling when you're so
excited that your bladder suddenly goes
to full if you're here in the subway it
might prove tricky because there are
generally no bathrooms around why is
that
or how for that matter can you even
breathe so deep underground there are so
many questions about the subway waiting
to be answered so off we go
how come streets and buildings don't
collapse underground above the subway
you'd think a huge hollow space right
beneath your feet would cave in sooner
or later but somehow it doesn't
that's because subway tunnels use
supports that don't allow the soil above
them to crumble the supports are usually
made of concrete and completed with
metal braces for additional safety by
the way there's an impressive digging
machine that not only bores the tunnel
but also constructs concrete supports on
the go why is it warm in the subway and
winter and cool in the summer you might
guess a great climate control system but
that wouldn't be it on most subway
stations there's no climate control at
all the comfy temperature depends
entirely on the laws of physics
cooler air tends to go down so when it's
summer all the heat inside the station
goes up well down below it's much more
pleasant in winter the heat from all the
electrical appliances makes the
station's warm and there's also no wind
inside so it doesn't feel as cold as
outside why do you feel a gust of wind
when opening the door of a subway
station if the station is of a closed
type you open the door and feel the blow
of warm air from inside this happens
because of a difference in pressure
within the station it's higher than in
the street to better gauge
fumes so when you open the door the air
escapes with force why is there a third
rail in the subway commuter and
high-speed trains all have two rails
they ride on but in the subway you may
notice a third one either between the
two main rails or on the side of the
platform no underground train cars don't
have an extra set of wheels the third
rail is there to provide electric power
to the Train the main rails aren't
electrified so nothing will happen to
you if you touch them this also
increases the chances of survival if
someone falls onto the tracks
but the third rail conducts a lot of
electricity so you best avoid it to
prevent becoming a small fry and on that
note why doesn't subway use overhead
power cables just like I said there's a
third rail to convey power to a subway
train commuter trains on the other hand
have overhead power lines that support
them the trouble is that such lines use
a very high voltage which isn't safe for
underground trains the power lines would
just be too close so the subway started
using lower voltage and higher current
power sources which needed a thicker
conductor and so begins the story of the
third rail another reason for not having
the lines up above in the subway is that
there are no people who would need to
walk or drive over the power supply
this makes the subway quite a safe place
to be
why are subway maps so geographically
inaccurate you must have noticed that
subway maps always show stations equally
spaced from each other and the lines on
them are almost perfectly straight
in reality though tunnels make turns
pretty often and the distance between
stations differs along maps are drawn
this way because underground it doesn't
really matter where exactly you are the
really important thing is the ease of
reading because passengers need only to
understand which station they need to
get off the train the credit in design
of the modern maps goes to Harry Beck
who invented the lund
tube map back in 1933 why is it so windy
in the subway apart from the powerful
ventilation system there's another
driving force that makes the air move
fast
trains when a train arrives to the
station it pushes the air in front of it
creating strong gusts of wind and since
trains come and go pretty often the air
doesn't really stop moving it on so
better not stand too close to the edge
of a platform you might end up blown
over how come you can breathe so deep
underground some subway stations aren't
quite shallow and you only need to take
a few steps down to catch a train but
there are also deep ones where you have
to take an escalator to get down to the
bottom for such stations air shafts are
constructed outside the main station
building they provide fresh air down
below which is great because otherwise
the air in the station would really
deplete quite soon also when the air
gets pumped into the station it goes
through a serious filtering system so
you get really really fresh air why is
there cellular reception in the subway
well when you're travelling so deep
underground surrounded by metal and
concrete
it would seem no signal could pass
through these walls but more often than
not you can use your phone and even post
things on the Internet while sitting in
the middle of a tunnel this is thanks to
the small antennas installed within the
tunnels the drawback is that Internet
connection might be slow because an
antenna connects to a cell tower at a
certain bandwidth and the more people
use it on the same station the less
speed each user gets now here's a biggie
why are there no public bathrooms on
subway stations it might come off as a
surprise but there are plenty of public
bathrooms on subway stations across the
world still not all of them are equipped
with these facilities and some only have
staff bathrooms subway workers can let
passengers use those but they can also
refuse to do so without any explanation
anyway there are two main reasons why
there are
public bathrooms safety and financing
they're ridiculously expensive to
maintain so I guess we won't be seeing
many of such cabins where they weren't
before and the second reason is of a
security concern since there can be no
cameras installed in the bathroom and
any kinds of suspicious activity would
go unnoticed now why do escalator
handrails move faster than the stairs
well having to constantly pull your hand
back on the handrail might be annoying
but there's a reason it leaves the
stairs behind in fact they're supposed
to move at the same speed but handrails
wear down faster than the stairs so they
are said to a more energetic pace from
the start with time they slow down and
the stairs gain on them why are there
mostly no guardrails on subway platforms
this might seem dangerous especially
since many people do fall on the tracks
but the problem is that a human operator
can't control the Train so precisely as
to fit the doors to the gaps and
guardrails maybe later when all trains
are completely automated some sort of
passenger protection will appear how our
subway trains coordinated to avoid
accidents
it's amazing how Underground trains have
this small interval of just a couple of
minutes between them and yet managed not
to bump into each other every so often
for this to work they're coordinated
from the central computer the tracks are
divided into short sections or blocks
and when a train is on a block it sends
a signal to the central computer that
it's occupied if there's another train
closing in from another direction the
safety equipment will warn the
operator and the second train will stop
to let the first one pass and if the
operator can't stop the train themselves
for some reason the automatic braking
system will trigger and force it to a
halt how to train operator stop at the
exact spot they ought to because they're
really really good at it
and well that to a subway train is a
long vehicle with many cars so it seems
surprising that it should always stop
exactly where it should but that isn't
some kind of magic professionals say
it's just practice and markers there's
always a big and obvious marker on the
wall of the tunnel that tells the
operator to start braking and if they do
it correctly they slow down and crawl to
the right spot it isn't exactly the same
all the time either it's just really
close to perfect so nobody sees any
difference hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life
[Music]
[Applause]